you for joining us today excellencies
and distinguished guests welcome to the
briefing on the fast changing and
deteriorating humanitarian situation in
occupied Palestinian territory I'm Lisa
Dalton the ocha's director of
humanitarian finance and resource
mobilization and I'm honored to moderate
this meeting today I'd like to remind
everyone that today's event is being
live streamed on webtv.un.org and has
English and Arabic interpretation
services in the room
online today's distinguished speakers
include Mr Martin Griffith the under
Secretary General for humanitarian
Affairs and emergency relief coordinator
who is seated here on the podium and
virtually joining us are miss Lynn
Hastings the deputy special coordinator
for the Middle East peace process and
United Nations resident and humanitarian
coordinator for the occupied Palestinian
territory and Mr Thomas White director
of the United Nations relief and works
Agency for Palestine refugees in the
near East affairs in Gaza I'm also
joined at the podium by Miss Greta gunas
doter director of unra Representative
office in New York and Mr Haled Amad
chief of ocha's external
relations before I hand the floor to Mr
griffi I'd like to quote the secretary
General's recent statement to the
security Council the situation in the
Middle East is growing more dire by the
hour the war in Gaza is raised is Raging
and risk spiraling throughout the region
divisions are splintering societies
tensions threaten to boil over at a
crucial Moment Like This it is vital to
be clear on principles starting with the
fundamental principle of respecting and
protecting
civilians so now I'd like to please
invite you to have a moment of silence
and honor of all of the civilians health
and Aid workers including more than 70
unrest staff who have lost their lives
and for the hostages still in
captivity
you
done
thank you now invite Mr Martin Griffith
under Secretary General for humanitarian
Affairs and emergency relief coordinator
to deliver his
remarks thanks very much Lisa so thanks
for doing this and thank you everybody
for for being here on this
extraordinarily important
issue um I've had
the privilege if that's the right word
of visiting the region twice in the last
eight or nine
days and even in a
life professional life filled
with um scenes of misery and tragedy and
hopelessness this particular
one I think takes all of
us very seriously a back it is quite
devastating what we've seen unfold over
the last 26
days in Israel and in the occupied
territories is nothing short of what I
think I would call a blight on our
Collective conscience all of us we're
all somehow involved in
this on the 7th of
October and I have had
the again
privilege of
seeing some of
the uh recordings of these
events Hamas launched an
attack claimed the lives of more than
1,400 people in
Israel and injured thousands
this death doll is more than three times
the cumulative number of Israelis
killed since OT began recording
casualties in
2005 and it was a
shocking shocking
site 240 hostages
remain held somewhere
hidden following this
attack
I would like you to
listen to a recording we made of a a
conversation I
had
with um the families the conversations
with some of the hostage families can we
listen to that
now
is that
on
no too
difficult no let me carry on
I I had the opportunity let me just
describe it a little bit in my own words
although of course their words are so
much more
powerful we had the opportunity
in Jerusalem to meet the representatives
very very young young teenagers people
in their early
20s about three or four or five
families uh many of whom had still lost
many of their
relatives and they pointed at
me and they said you are also
responsible to do something about this
to try to find those people we have lost
to try to find if those people that
we've lost are still alive and to try to
find ways of bringing them back you are
also
responsible and I sat there thinking
whether this is the time for me to
describe the a mandate or not
ludicrously of course I
didn't um and we talked about the work
of courageous organizations like icrc
and msf and others who are doing their
best but the truth
is these people are still lost and the
truth
is that we hear news each day of more of
them dying or being killed so for those
families who I met those young people
who I
met
um each day is a day of terrible
anxiety
uncertainty a day where the future might
stop this is they're right this is a
humanitarian issue of the highest
importance finding these people and
getting them
home
in 26 days
also close to
9,000 Palestinians have been
killed in the hostilities in
Gaza and God knows how many more there
are uncounted under the
rubble as we all know from other
places that the numbers the real numbers
of those dead only emerge much later
when the buildings are cleared the
rubble is taken
away and the bodies of those who have
perished become
revealed this total of
9,000 is a four times as many deaths as
during the 50-day conflict in
2014 where just over 2,200 Palestinians
were killed 9,000 Palestinians
dead from
that early day of October
7th I don't know if we can hear the
recording or
not of by my discussions
with no we can't sorry nobody hearing
me should I start
again don't
worry I spoke to some of the
families in
Gaza I couldn't get in and out of
Gaza um and what you would have
heard uh was the story of two families
one
family um the father of which was a
lawyer like
me about my age probably very
old and his house had been destroyed one
midnight and in his house lived the
extended family as is quite common in
Gaza
and as he said
he spent that next day or
two doing two
things trying desperately to find
somewhere to live and thank God for
anra thank God for anra as we will hear
more and from
Tom who is there daily bravely
working they found some Refuge some
safety
in a school of un where they could stay
the night where they're still living
that was the first thing he had to do
the second thing he had to do was with
his own hands bury 30 members of his
family who had been killed that night in
the house that now no longer
existed and what you would have
heard and I'm sure you would have been
as affected as I
was suddenly an
8-year-old daughter granddaughter
presumably suddenly interrupted the call
and she
said I just don't want to
die and end of quote I just don't want
to die that's
all so we've we have these parallel
tragedies and in my world and in my Val
Val and I think it is it is true in all
our values one
death has the value of all
deaths and one
killing is a tragedy in and of
itself and this goes on day by day by
day by day and by the end of what of my
speech I'm sure the numbers will have
changed all for the worst
life sustaining connections into Gaza
which is what so many of us have been
focused on in our
negotiations have been all but cut cut
off
uh a couple of weeks ago there was a
full
blackout electricity was cut off
completely cross Gaza another one I
think happened a couple of days ago and
we understand that this will happen from
time to
time 14
out of 35
hospitals within patient capacities
those who can take people
in aren't not are not functioning as you
have heard many of us say unra of course
and who and msf in particular the health
system is on its
knees
anra the bul
workk the safety net the buffer of of so
many people of Gaza for so many
years it's practically out of
business I pay tribute here as I was
going to do
later I don't even know the numbers
today this morning yesterday it was
killed of honorous staff there Brave
staff and I had
14,000 National staff in Gaza at the
outset said many of them fled but I
think 5,000 or so are still
working and I don't know how many are
dead now we'll hear more probably from
Tom one of the terrible things about
that those killings are that most of
them have happened in the homes of those
people and they have been killed with
their
families I think it's the highest number
of
un staff lost in a
conflict over 60% of the people in
Gaza that's 1.4 million people are
displaced with nowhere else to go we
know they can't get out we know they
search for the temporary shelters that
unra gives them but are themselves
vulnerable to
attack um half a million half a
million children women
and Men crowded into these overcrowded
shelters and we've all seen them on our
screens we've
seen the
desolation of a Gaza which
reminds me of the early early years of
the Syrian War where we saw towns like
holes raised to the ground the
desolation of those
buildings all of which been something to
each one of those people who have
fled there are intense humanitarian
negotiations day and night I've had the
Good Fortune to not attender to to to
observe
this between Israeli authorities
Egyptians the United States Thank you
Lisa um and the United Nations and I'm
grateful to all of
those governments and parties and
entities for the time put in to those
negotiations because those neg
negotiations are
detailed often produce unexpected
results sometimes don't produce
results and as of
yesterday a total of
trucks have entered
Gaza since the 21st of October when
trucks started being allowed to to move
in through
Rafa yesterday
alone from these
negotiations over 100 trucks carrying
humanitarian supplies entered
Gaza the largest
Convoy in this terrible
picture this may sound a lot sounds a
lot to me when I first heard it but
prior to this particular round of
fighting of conflict of
suffering an average of 500 truckloads
needed to enter Gaza every
day
500 we're praising where we are happy
with a 100 well the people of Gaza are
not happy of course with 100 and we've
seen how the people of Gaza are taking
things into their own hands and who
wouldn't under these
circumstances so these negotiations
detailed and important as they
are don't do the
business we are not keeping
up with
the
progress towards
desolation which is the story of Gaza
these days we are not keeping up civil
order
is
random
the military operation is
continuing people are
finding dead bodies where they had
thought they weren't have moved to
places which are not
safe some have managed to get out as we
have seen recently but not
Garin so we're not keeping up despite
the fact that these negotiations
continue all hours of the day and
night and it is to the credit of those
around that table that they do that and
they do look at
issues like fuel like water like
Trucking like
access like human rights like
International humanitarian law they
can't keep up with the
needs if I may Lisa if I may summarize
our requirements speaking as a
representative of the humanitarian
community
these are simple clear not
easy but not
unknown firstly
respect as ever the first
casualty Respect by all parties for
international humanitarian law which ICC
continually reminds us applies in many
different ways in these
circumstances that's the
backdrop that's not a priority
that's an
obligation the first all hostages all
hostages not just the
tragic numbers of
children all hostages must be released
immediately and unconditionally and
indeed is
required by International humanitarian
law all parties on all
sides must protect civilians civilian
infrastructure including our
humanitarian colleagues and their assets
warehouses of which have
been have been where the assets have
been taken away civilians remain
entitled to
protection whether they stay or move and
they have the right to
choose and anyone and anyone who doesn't
evacuate mustn't automatically be
considered a support the adversary or
Target of an attack and it seems
benal to say that civilian
infrastructure and civilian structures
should not be attacked and we say it all
the time daily in this building do do we
not about so many conflicts around the
world Gaza reminds us reminds us why
this is so important because it's these
infrastructures where people live and
die and it's these infrastructures where
our colleagues in unra provide temporary
shelter and
protection number three allow of course
essential supplies and humanitarian
relief including Fuel and I heard just
this morning as I came in that there has
been some progress on allowing some more
fuel in through these
negotiations I hope to see that
confirmed during today but thank you if
that's the case fuel is essential
for the functioning of institutions of
hospitals of the distribution of water
of
electricity and we must allow these
supplies
reliably
repetitively and dependably into
Gaza and and I think here is my main
point as an aid
worker these negotiations must continue
continue but they are not enough we must
have those
pauses we must have those pauses if we
do not have pauses we will not keep up
with the needs of the people of
Gaza and the Israelis also caught up in
those areas of
conflict and then of course Lyn will
Lisa will speak to the issue of
funding finally Lisa finally from me too
long I want to
commend I have already commended Andra
under the leadership of Philip lazarini
of Tom who we will hear from who is
their Gaza Chief but we'll also hear
from ly
Hastings who is our humanitarian
coordinator who I commend very highly
and who works very hard with our team
and the teams of all the agencies Nos
and others to try to make a dent
in these difficult times thank
you thank you very much um I think we
have before we turn to Lynn Hastings I
think um I thought we had the voices CED
it looks like we do not have the voices
CED so thank you very much
um no okay all right thank you very much
so now I'd like to give the floor to
miss Lynn Hastings Deputy special
coordinator for the Middle East peace
process and United Nations res
humanitarian coordinator for the
occupied Palestinian territory the floor
is
yours thank you
Lisa Excellency I can only
share us sorry under Secretary General
Griff's alarm about this unfolding
humanitarian
tragedy without a let up in the
hostilities in Israel and the occupied
Palestinian territory the situation will
only deteriorate
as Martin mentioned 240 hostages remain
captive I repeat that they must be
released immediately and without
condition we welcome all diplomatic
efforts to secure their release and
demand that in the interim they are
treated humanely and be allowed to
receive visits from the
icrc in Gaza the humanitarian impact has
been catastrophic
it continues to deepen as Israeli
strikes
intensifying according to the Ministry
of Health and Gaza close to 9,000 people
in Gaza have now been killed and more
than 22,000
injured more than 2third of those are
estimated to be women and
children the number of displaced in Gaza
stands now at 1.5 million with more than
690,000 Sheltering and lra Facilities
and other places people hope are safe
including hospitals churches and
schools the reality is nowhere is truly
safe on the 2nd of November yesterday
four unra shelters hosting nearly 20,000
idps were
hit and as a result at least 23 people
were killed and dozens more
injured since the start of hostilities
nearly 50 unre facilities have been
damaged and as Martin mentioned at least
72 staff
killed for the 22nd consecutive day Gaza
remains under a full electricity
blackout following Israel's halt of the
electricity and fuel supply to
Gaza meanwhile the backup generators
that are essential for so many services
including hospitals water desalination
plants food production facilities have
been relying
on the main power are one by one
grinding to a halt as fuel supplies run
out the health system is overwhelmed
with an influx of injuries combined with
severe shortages of supplies Personnel
electricity and
water since the start of the hostilities
40% of hospitals in Gaza that's 14 of 35
which I think Martin mentioned and near
nearly 71% of primary health care
clinics that's 51 of 72 have shut
down only one of three Water Supplies
lines from Israel is now operational
many people are relying on brackish or
sailing
groundwater if at
all access to food is becoming
increasingly a concern people are
braving air strikes to line up outside
of bakeries to obtain bread a number of
which have already been closed down due
to lack of fuel cooling chains for
perishable Goods have broken down and
there's a complete closure of shops and
food processing
facilities the agreement to use the raff
of Crossing from Egypt to get essential
humanitarian supplies into Gaza has
provided a little relief to people
living in these appalling
conditions and while we welcome this
important development these deliveries
which are the result of extensive
negotiations cannot cover the
significant rise in humanitarian need
and most crucially these recent
deliveries do not include fuel fuel that
is essential as I've said to powering
essential services that people need to
survive I have to highlight that
humanitarian assistance is not enough to
sustain a population of 2.2 million
people for civilians across Gaza to get
access to adequate food water Medical
Care and other essential supplies we
must be able to scale up deliveries of
all these goods and we must be able to
replenish fuel supplies to
scale we pledge to do our part to ensure
these deliveries increase and continue
but in no crisis does the humanitarian
Community work
alone the private sector the NOS they
must be protected and it will also be
important to over other open other
Crossings for for these
purposes it is also imperative that the
parties respect their obligations under
international law and our Collective
responsibility to use all our influence
to ensure they do
so sanity humanity and international law
must Prevail humanitarian ceasefires
will ease the Epic Su human suffering
and make humanitarian access easier and
safer next week the human atarian
country team will issue the updated
flash appeal for the occupied
Palestinian
territory the cost of meeting the needs
of the entire population of Gaza and
500,000 people in the West Bank until
the end of the year are estimated to be
1.2
billion our ability to implement even
part of this plan depends of course on
many things funding our ability to scale
up efficient verification mechanisms
that take take into account security
issues
I do want to highlight that this
includes the staff many of whom have
been displaced themselves and who
continue to support the most vulnerable
despite unra still facing a very
significant phisical deficit which means
most of these staff or maybe all of
these staff their salaries are still in
doubt and this is at a time when we
expect unra and their staff
to carry almost the entire burden of
this crisis on their shoulders thank
you thank you very much and thank you
for providing us with the situation um
on the ground as well as uh the need for
financial support uh to support the
humanitarian uh assistance so now I'd
like to turn to uh Mr Thomas White who's
director of uh United Nations relief and
work agency for Palestine refugees and
near East affairs Gaza the floor is
yours thank you very much Lisa uh I'm
joining you from the UN Rafa log base uh
in
Gaza I'm very conscious that you know
you meet in New York under the UN flag
uh and I'm sure that the flag is uh is
flying over the East River there we too
have the UN flag here in Gaza
there are hundreds of thousands of
people who are also Sheltering under the
UN flag here but my message is that you
know
increasingly uh this situation here is
pushing us to the brink we don't want to
get to the day where the UN flag is not
flying in Gaza because really it is the
only uh hope for people now uh in
Gaza firstly I'd like to pay tribute
to my colleagues uh who've lost their
lives at last count it was
72 every time I ask for an update I fear
in fact I know that that number will
grow this is taking an enormous toll uh
on so many families uh within the unua
uh
family but also everybody you speak to
whether it be idps uh or people out on
the street they all have a story of loss
so we very much are part of the
community that are
grieving but I'd also like to um pay
tribute to the unra colleagues but also
more broadly you know every Garen who is
working as an emergency worker to
support their
Community they are putting their
Community um above their own
lives uh they are out there every
day in danger providing
Services me the majority of the staff in
unua uh who are working on a daily basis
are actually living as idps
themselves having traveled uh the length
and breadth of of Gaza in the last few
weeks uh it is a scene of death and
destruction
let's be very clear there is no place
that is safe in Gaza right
now people fear for their lives people
fear for their
Futures and now people are fearing that
they will not be able to feed their
families uh on a day-to-day
basis the major challenges we
Face are sustaining an aid operation
under these circum irst ances operating
in a situation where civil order Law and
Order is on the brink of
collapse and trying to
comprehend trying to plan for how we
will cope with the potential for another
wave of displacement uh into the
South I'd like to give you a uh a sense
of our our operation right now the first
thing I'd like to say is the current
operation is a essentially being
sustained by stocks that we already had
in Gaza prior to the conflict to give
you a sense we were already running a
food
program uh between unua and the world
food program that was providing 50 to
60% of the calorific need for 1.5
million
people so people were already living on
the breadline uh in Gaza and they were
supported by the International
Community ENT with those stocks we've
been able to uh
maintain the bread Market in Gaza uh
currently we are supporting bakeries
about 89 bakeries across Gaza uh aiming
to get bread to 1.7 million
people we are pushing out about 370 tons
of of wheat flour into Gaza the bread
anybody buys at a breaker now is essenti
uh bread or or or is is made with wheat
flour from
unua the reality though is that the
average Garen is living on one or two
pieces of hubz Arabic bread little
rounds of bread per
day the water situation is of great
concern um with the fuel supplies that
we've managed to secure from within Gaza
uh we are managing to support uh the
Coastal Water Authority uh for
desalination also to sustain
desalination plants that we have in many
of the camps and also a lot of the
schools that we operate
uh but the refrain from from people on
the street right now and I we took our
commissioner General Philipe lazarini uh
into one of the internally displaced
centers the other day and everybody was
pointing to their mouth and saying my
May Maya water water uh so now people
are Beyond looking for bread it's
looking for
water I want to give you a sense of what
a shelter looks like now we have you
know close to 600,000 people Sheltering
in 149
shelters the the reality is we've lost
contact with many of the shelters in the
north but just to give you a sense of
you know the shelters that I'm visiting
in the
South these are essentially School each
school um is designed on any given day
to have a thousand students uh attend
that school so uh but the reality is now
we are we are well over 4,000 or or or
an average of 4,000 idps living in those
schools we don't have the resources to
maintain the
sanitation women and children are
sleeping in the classroom the men are
sleeping uh out in the open
the conditions are desperate in these
shelters but in many cases they are the
lucky ones many people are building
makeshift shelters with with whatever
material they can find and essentially
living in the
open the medical situation is dire I've
been up to shifa hospital last week the
two overwhelming images for me were that
every flat uh uh surface would either
had somebody who'd been
injured or somebody who was Sheltering
in the hospital because they thought it
was a safe
place the other enduring image of of a
visit to shifa was standing in the
courtyard you could hear the air strikes
and see the air strikes coming into the
suburbs around shifa hospital and
literally on the clock within 10 minutes
the ambulan has started coming through
essentially uh there were uh bought
people just lying very badly injured
people lying on the on the floor of the
ambulances the triage at the back of the
ambulance was who's dead who's alive
those who were alive with horrific blast
injuries burn injuries uh were taken
into an already overwhelmed emergency
department uh and the people who were
dead were then taken l about 25 M away
to an open air
morg in terms of protection of civilians
people are and I come back to this this
idea that people are Sheltering under a
un flag the reality is we cannot even
provide them uh safety under a un
flag we've had over 50 of our facilities
that have been impacted by the conflict
including five direct hits I think at
last count 38 people have
died uh in our
shelters I fear that with the fighting
going on in the north right now that is
that number is going to grow
significantly these are people seeking
shelter under a un flag seeking
protection uh under International
humanitarian
law I'd Echo lind's comments that
humanitarian Aid is not the only
solution to the problem here we have to
focus on ensuring that uh the um the
public and the private sector operate to
give you a sense the municipal services
in Gaza are the ones who are pumping the
sewage out of the
Cities right now they're not going to
treatment plants it's being pumped into
the sea but when you speak to Municipal
workers the reality is once their fuel
runs out that sewage will flow in the
streets similarly we need to be working
along the pr alongside the private
sector and the example I'll provide here
is cooking gas cooking gas is becoming
increasingly is increasingly in short
supply cooking gas was brought in in a
back-to-back operation prior to the
conflict from
Egypt and the distribution was with the
private
sector eight organizations such as unra
are not going to be able to step in and
replicate the network of distribution uh
by the private sector for this essential
item being cooking
gas I I won't comment further on the
issues of Convoy and fuel I think
Martin um and uh Lyn have spoken to
that but in refle my own reflection in
sort of 20 years of working as a
humanitarian
never have I been working with uh a
group of
humanitarians who are in fact have had
such a large loss of life from within
their community and in fact are
overwhelmingly uh idps and recently
recently displaced uh and never have
been in a situation where we are
effectively starved of the vital
humanitarian supplies that we need uh to
provide to people the toughest thing is
with our staff who are serving in these
IDP shelters is they know what they need
to deliver for the people but they just
don't have it in their
hands pardon
me finally We need regular and
sustained uh humanitarian supplies and
access alongside the public and private
sector and
finally and this is a call from the
people
here they need a ceasefire they want a
ceasefire now thank
you thank you so much for that point in
and very Stark firsthand account before
I open the floor uh to the list of
speakers I'd like to quickly turn back
to our under Secretary General
please yeah thank you I'm looking at a
Sumer actually
um I was in Egypt um the other day and
had the privilege of
meeting uh senior Egyptian officials
your foreign
minister Secretary General has been in
touch with President
CCE and Egypt has been an
extraordinarily helpful
partner uh in under very very difficult
circumstances as we all know in this in
this
moment with the threat of being
overwhelmed by numbers of people trying
to get into
Egypt what what I want to say about
Egypt also makes me think about other
places
I don't think Egypt has refused a single
visa for people coming in like visitors
like that I think that's almost a unique
record so Asama thank you for that it's
very important number
two Egypt h has indeed worked very hard
to craft an
agreement um with the uh humanitarian
leadership that we have on screen here
Lynn and Tom and others to have a
presence in Elish
the airport not far from Rafa and then
possibly moving towards
Rafa um and I don't underestimate the
difficulty of that decision by the
Egyptian
government um but I don't underestimate
the importance of it for our functioning
operations so as some thank you for that
as
well and then
thirdly
Egypt through its people through its red
cresant who had the privilege to meet
the head of your Egyptian red cresant
along with the Dr Maran Dr Ramy from the
Egyptian red cresant Dr
Marwan from the Palestinian red cresant
obviously heroic figure under these
circumstances we met both of them in
Cairo the other day
and you know one of the good things one
of the very few good things about
humanitarian crisis is that you discover
where you in a place you've never been
before people who share your values as
they do ours so Asama we thank your
government we rely we rely on you of
course as a partner you're fully
involved in these
negotiations and you've always been very
very helpful thank you very much
thank you and now I'd like to open the
floor to interventions and remind you to
unmute your mic when it is your turn to
speak and also please keep your
interventions to two minutes we are well
over time at the moment so please do
keep your interventions to two minutes
and I would like to First offer the
floor to representative from Saudi
Arabia followed by Qatar and Egypt so
the floor is yours representative from
Saudi
Arabia thank you very much I will be
speaking in
Arabic
at the outset we would like to thank the
briefers for their
briefings we express our concern
regarding the developments in the
humanitarian situation in Gaza we
condemn in the strongest terms and we
reject any targeting of civilians any
violations of international humanitarian
law including the targeting of
infrastructure and civilian
objects for an immediate ceasefire and a
cessation of
hostilities in Gaza and an end to the
illegal blockade and we demand providing
humanitarian assistance and basic needs
to provide electricity once again and to
allow for the delivery of fuel medicine
and food to the people of
Gaza not only are we saddened by the
death of civilians
there
Ang and disappointed because the
International Community cannot even
assist with medicine and water because
the International Community has been
unable to put an end to further killing
and displacement even those living and
seeking shelter within the United
Nations we have launched a campaign for
the Rel the Palestinian people in two
days were able to
million
Saudi the role of the United Nations OFA
is vital to guarantee a safe space for
humanitarian work including through
humanitarian corridors we stress the
need to respect International
humanitarian law and international human
rights law I thank you thank you very
much I'd like to now offer the floor to
the representative of
Qatar thank you so much uh I would like
to as well thank under Secretary General
Martin griffi for convening this
important briefing and I would like to
thank uh both Lynn Hasting and uh Thomas
White for their detailed and
comprehensive breathing about the uh
catastrophic situation in the Gaza St
let me Begin by stating that qara is
extremely concerned about the cast
catastrophic humanitarian situation in
the Gaza Strip and its vast consequences
for the civilian population which which
is largely comprised of children and
women this underlines the need for the
full immediate safe unhindered and
sustained humanitarian access which is
also called for by the general assembly
resolution that was adopted during the
emergency special session last Last
Friday we have called for the immediate
provision of essential goods and
services to the population including
water food medical supplies Fuel and
electricity we stressed the imperative
um the imperative under International
humanitarian law of ensuring that
civilians are not deprived of goods and
services indispensable to their survival
the state of qar of course strongly
condemns uh the Israeli attacks
targeting innocent civilians and civilan
objects tragically thousands of children
have been accounted for either killed or
missing buried under the rebel qar has
consistently called for an immediate
ceasefire the escalation of hostility
the exercise of Atmos restrain and the
protection of civilians to prevent a
wider cycle of violence as per of our
humanitarian efforts Qatar recently
dispatched three planes carrying food
and medical supplies to date qatar's
assistance has reached a total of 124
tons a Lifeline for the Palestinian
people facing these challenges and
devastating humanitarian catastrophe we
are committed also to support the cor
funding of
of $18 million for the years 2023 and
2024 and ready to address the emergency
calls as well qara de Crescent Society
allocated $1 million from its Disaster
Response fund for an immediate emergency
intervention plans aimed at providing
critical needs of medicine medical
supplies and ambulance
vehicles um I would like to also
acknowledge of course that qar remains
steadfast in its commitment to to
alleviate the suffering of the
Palestinian people and addressing their
urgent humanitarian needs we call on the
UN Security Council to take up its
responsibility to reach an agreement on
a security Council resolution that calls
for an immediate ceasefire and an
immediate ENT of humanitarian assistance
and to as
well uh uh put an end for the targeting
of innocent civilians in the GP and I
thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to the representative
from Egypt
thank you very much distinguished
moderator us Martin Our Heroes on the
ground Thomas Lynn and everyone who's
operating to save the Palestinian in
innocent lives in in the middle of that
crazy war that is ongoing you are kind
enough to thank Egypt Martin but it is
it's a Call of Duty Egyptians were doing
what we we should do and what any
country hereid present would have done
very proud of of fulfilling our duty but
it's it's it's high time for me to thank
you personally because I knew what you
were doing to to to uh uh make
difference on the ground and so on to
thank the SG himself he has been there
in Rafa Crossing for saying and doing
what needs to to be done and you're very
right Martin it's it's it's it's those
difficult moments show The Real uh uh uh
uh values that we all share for for the
value of a human spirit and and so on
for Our Heroes on the
ground putting the UN flag up you should
be very proud We we totally recognize
and respect your great role and I
couldn't agree more with you uh uh
Martin on the need for an immediate
ceasefire humanitarian ceasefire
immediate immediate this is what we were
saying last Friday when we voted in the
in the the ga and and for those who have
voted no or whatever you you're
listening to the people on the ground
look at the tolls and then you would get
to to realize for us as Egyptians we're
we're we're working on the modalities to
facilitate uh the lifting the suffering
of the people to allow uh the the
uniform flow last night we have had
102 uh uh trucks so so hopefully we'll
maintain that R fuel continues to be a
problem water as I understand continues
to be a problem and of of course we we
need everyone to who who had the
resources to help mobilizing sufficient
resources for unua and for for o and for
all the UN agencies operating on the
ground uh uh those who had the political
weight to to persuade those who who are
who negate up till the moment to agree
on a ceasefire to to do such thing other
than that you see it's it's shameful so
we need to keep mobilizing what I would
qualif as the global public opinion to
to stop the war invest in peace save
lives as we are seeing the the the the
toll arises in of the victims in in Gaz
this is what I wanted to say in brief
thank you very much moderator thank you
very much and now I'd like to invite the
representative from Jordan followed by
Canada European union and state of
Palestine so the representative from
Jordan the floor is
yours thank you I'd like to thank uh us
Martin Griffith for his uh briefing and
also I'd like to thank uh our colleagues
from Anan OCH on the ground Miss
Hastings and Mr Thomas White this is
very sobering indeed what we heard from
you on on on on on the situation in in
Gaza it's it's truly a a humanitarian
disaster that's Bing before our eyes
when you see
67% of the Palestinians killed in Gaza
are women are and children for 14
Palestinian civilians are killed every
hour six Palestinian children killed
every hour four Palestinian women killed
every hour uh H how H how long do you
have to wait until weact as an
International Community when you hear
the humanitarian act are pleading with
you to to allow access in um and we see
that it is trickling down you're talking
about 329 trucks so far uh entering Gaza
and daily it's around 500 trucks before
before this uh situation erupted on 7
October U that's outrageous Egypt is
trying its best to allow humanitarian
Aid in we know how much they the hurdles
that Israelis are putting in this and we
see here their ministers talking about
how it is transactional we allowed allow
Aid in as an exchange for what is
required from them to to do uh with
regard to the hostages and other
detained person that's unacceptable this
is is a crime under international law
this is a huge crime if you don't call
them out for what they're doing and let
Aid in they will continue to do so that
must stop and the UN narrative must
continue as such you are Guided by the
ass10 resolution this is how it is we
have to to stop the war we have to allow
humanitarian Aid in we have to stop the
transfer of people this is how it is the
humanitarian situation will continue to
deteriorate before our eyes before your
eyes if you put it in perspective and I
hate to make comparisons in this regard
all human lives are important Israeli
Palestinian Ukrainian how many children
killed in the Ukraine war in 20 months
600 how many children kill Palestinian
children killed in less than 4 weeks
3,700 is this
acceptable how many ukrainians were
killed and I'm sorry to to make the this
reference or the civilians killed in the
Ukraine war
9,600 as of this morning 9,300
Palestinians killed in 20 days civilians
this is
outrageous and this has to stop thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to the representative
from
Canada thank you very much thank you I
want to thank Mr Griffith for his report
uh just say a couple of things uh very
briefly first of all I certainly
appreciate
uh Martin that you paid attention to the
situation of October the 7th and the
disastrous consequence of that for human
life uh for human suffering and a
suffering that continues because of the
ongoing uh holding of the
hostages um I think we all have to
understand that that that's true and it
needs to be stated um secondly I I think
all of us support what you've said about
the respect for international
humanitarian law by all the actors that
includes not putting civilians at risk
because of where military infrastructure
is placed in Gaza that has to be
understood as something that needs to be
addressed we all as parties have an
obligation to protect human life and we
all have an obligation to protect
civilian
infrastructure uh
Canada and this has been indicated
clearly by my prime minister and by um
the minister are strongly in favor of a
humanitarian pause and we need to have a
humanitarian Corridor in order to get
supplies in we have committed already
$60 million in additional assistance we
have uh we have Goods foods and other
things ready to go and we also very much
appreciate the assistance that we have
received from the government of Egypt uh
from the government of Israel and from
the government of the United States in
the negotiations around Canadian
citizens being allowed to to leave uh to
leave to leave Gaza um and we appreciate
deeply the steps that are being taken to
move that through quickly I think it's
important that we understand the full
dimensions of this crisis I fully
believe that every humanitarian crisis
has a political cause and this is a
classic example of one of those that
does this this is not the time or place
to engage in a political debate I have
no intention of doing so but I think
it's very important for all of us to
look for the ground where we agree we
agree that humanitarian assistance must
be increased we agree it must get in as
quickly as possible we agree it must be
expanded and we agree that there must be
a pause in the hostilities in order to
allow that to be expanded to the extent
that is required and that's ground on
which we can agree and we should be
moving quickly to push forward in that
area thank you very much thank you very
much now I'd like to give the floor to
the representative from European
Union good morning colleagues thank you
very much for for the update and and I
just want to say that I think we're all
horrified over the plight of the
civilians that is currently playing out
in front of our eyes I think we're
horrified for the lack of ability we as
professionals have had to prevent this
and now we're horrified by the
limitations of assisting people in need
and I think it also is horrifying from a
human being perspective as well I think
we all feel powerless in in front of of
this situation but therefore all the
more admiration for the work that all of
you who have briefed us today in your
staff and and great respect and
condolences to all the Fallen un staff
from unra and
elsewhere um we have over the last few
weeks spoken about our positions on this
crisis um including the absolute respect
for international humanitarian law the
need for all hostages to be released
that all civilians need to be protected
and civilian infrastructure that
essential supplies needs to be allowed
in and in scale as you were saying and
that all necessary measures are must be
taken in order to allow that be that
humanitarian corridors paes whatever is
needed we've also stepped up our own
assistance uh tripling uh humanitarian
support to the Palestinians in Gaza um
we've consistently supported unra
politically financially we ask others to
step up as well especially in this very
difficult time um and we've provided for
air flights Special Air flights to Egypt
to allow for the humanitarian assistance
to be provided there uh when the
situation allows for that to be then um
deployed um so my question is really you
know just repeating again and again
everything we said and you made those
points Martin others have made those
points the U the general assembly has
made those points what else can we do
right now as big donors in our case
thank you very
much thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to the representative of
the State of Palestine Then followed by
Sweden Libya and
Pakistan the floor to the state of
Palestine
thank you
madam I just want to be very Frank with
you I listened to you in previous
reporting whether in the security
Council or in other groupings here what
I heard from you
today lacked the intensity and the
humanity that you have demonstrated in
previous
reporting he did not talk about the huge
elephant in the room of the crime being
committed against the Palestinian people
the children the women the wounded
depriving them in a huge Collective
punishment of no electricity no fuel no
medicine no food no
water you describe that situation as a
catastrophic
situation and many of you said that it
is border line of crime against humanity
and
genocide and the reporting
today did not ask for the thing that you
asked for
forcefully Cease Fire Stop The Killing
stop murdering the Palestinians in this
massive large number the general
assembly adopted a resolution calling
for these things and then the reporting
today is stale
you are
officers reporting on the work related
to uh the humanitarian field I know the
brave Rank and file of your
organizations are the brave ones who are
really acting according to their mandate
and their full commitment to protect the
Palestinian people to help the
Palestinian people to tell the story
story of the devastations of demolishing
almost 50% of all of the structures in
the Gaza Strip This is what you used to
tell us in your previous reporting I
think you should continue to be
consistence in telling the story as it
is not to try to customize the narrative
for whatever Reasons I'm speaking to you
because it is my duty to tr to transmit
to each and everyone one of you the
massive pain and horror that the
Palestinian civilians especially the
children who constitute half of the
population of the Gaza Strip We Salute
Ona and Ocha and all those who are you
know working in the field I saw the
tears you know and the eyes of Lynn
Hastings in the security Council when we
were talking about the numbers of the
horrors uh related to to the Palestinian
people and of course you know I wanted
to see lazarini who went to the field
and he saw firsthand inside Gaza the
horror and the situation there we are
entitled to listen to his reporting and
to his you know uh recommendations I
listened to him very closely when he
spoke in the security Council saying
that there is a huge catastrophe
unfolding in the Gaz STP it has to stop
a ceasefire should be the first the
first order of the day now it changed
from ceasefire to pauses which means
Israel continue killing the Palestinians
but give us few hours every now and then
in order to get food and other stuff but
continue the fighting you are the
responsible of Defending humanity and
human beings
and civil and and civilians you should
be saying clearly and loudly in line of
you know IHL that a ceasefire should
take place saving lives should take
place an immediate secession of all of
these hostilities should take place this
is what I expect from you because you
are the responsible individuals and
organizations for protecting life when
War takes place the first thing that is
is needed ceasefire in order to save
human beings not to continue the war and
to allow for few hours every now and
then to allow truckloads of assistance
to take place and let me conclude I
think the gentleman from
honorat when he says that ceasefire that
the Palestinian people are asking for
are you the officers of the humanitarian
field you're not asking for ceasefire
only the Palestinian the victims who are
being killed and their uh children under
the rebels uh are the ones only asking
for
ceasefire I thought that Mr lazarini and
even Mr Griffith himself in the security
Council the other day they said the
first thing that we need is a
ceasefire I am you know sorry for you
know being extremely Frank with you
because the situation situation of the
Palestinian people in Gaza
is beyond comprehension and Beyond you
know uh uh description and it requires
from all of us to do everything that we
can to stop it and to stop it yesterday
not even today thank
you
thank thank you thank o and Martin
griffi for convening this meeting uh but
also uh the other briefers uh not only
for your very sobering messages and for
bringing us uh from this conference room
to the horrendous uh humanitarian
situation on the ground in Gaza uh but
also for everything that you're doing
you and your staff uh on the ground uh
under very difficult circumstances
Sweden is Gravely concerned about the
the deteriorating humanitarian situation
in
Gaza we support efforts for Rapid Safe
unhindered and sustained humanitarian
access and AIDS through all necessary
measures including humanitarian
corridors and poses for humanitarian
needs Sweden deeply regrets the death of
many civilians and the UN Personnel we
reiterate our call for full respect of
international law and international
humanitarian law this year Sweden has
already dispersed around 13 million US
dollar in humanitarian Aid to Palestine
this is on top of our substantial core
funding to un agencies active on the
ground not least unra who plac a crucial
role in extremely difficult conditions
Sweden has supported omra with around
$40 million us this year we are pleased
to see $9 million us doar allocated from
the central emergency response fund
Sweden has supported surf with around
$60 million us this year making us the
third largest Doner yesterday Sweden
announced $ 13 million us 150 million
Swedish kroner in new humanitarian Aid
challenge through the wfp P UNICEF unfp
and icrc I thank you very
much thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to the representative
Libya and the chair of the Arab
group thank you
chair thanks Mr Griffith for your
briefing and colleagues uh from Ona
first of all our condolences uh for the
L of lives uh of the UN staff and yes Mr
Griffith this number is actually the
highest to in a
conflict but why is it happening that's
the
question by the time we finish this
meeting we know that dozens of other
lives will be
lost and I want to also remind everyone
this is not only happening in Gaza let's
not forget what's happening in the West
Bank right now against
Palestinians where there's no militant
act where unfortunately
again our the representative ative of
Canada keeps putting it a one-sided
story and not putting things into
context you cannot justify the killing
of 9,000 civilians under the excuse of
What's called the right of
self-defense that's an occupier an
occupier doesn't have that right by
killing this
number there's no place safe in Gaza
that's what you director said now from
there no place is safe so the claim of
having a North place to be evacuated
where the south is safe is not true it's
false we all have to recall
that the targeting of jabalia refugee
camp twice is an
Evidence of this kind
of atrocity that it cannot be silenced
anymore therefore I'm
questioning where are those human rights
Defenders where are those who are
preaching us all the time about women's
rights children armed
conflict where are you where are the
special envoys on those matters why are
they
silent history will not forgive so speak
up
again Mr Griffith you should not be
using the word humanitarian pause in
your statements this is not acceptable
this is not a movie where we'll be
watching and holding a play button then
pause and play again these are lives the
UN should call for
ceasefire not for
pauses dehumanizing Palestinian is not
acceptable this is not
acceptable all lives matter
this is a conflict where everybody in
the world now is looking into it and
seeing the hypocrisy and double
standards all life
matters depriving more than 2 million
citizens civilians from food water fuel
is a war crime we have to say that that
is a war crime if it's not then what
is we as an Arab group have took the
path towards pushing for three main
requirements an immediate
ceasefire humanitarian Aid to be entered
immediately and to stop this forced
transfer of
people you saw the overwhelming support
from the
ga in the time of failure of Security
Council but still we do count on
everyone to wake up and translate that
overwhelming support that happened to
have something happen on the
ground we all acknowledge the hard work
of the UN staff on the ground and those
who are in the front lines but I think
we all hold a responsibility especially
those who are unfortunately being
silent thank
you thank you very much and um given we
are running over time I would like to to
remind all speakers to please limmit
your interventions to two minutes now
I'd like to turn to the representative
of Pakistan followed by United States
United Kingdom and the Netherlands so
representative of Pakistan
please and thank you Madame
moderator we are grateful
to uh
Martin and uh Miss Hastings Mr Tom
white for uh
providing a briefing on the factual
situation on the
ground in the what I would
call The Killing Zone of
Gaza
Pakistan has provided
humanitarian assistance through
Egypt to the gazin and we will continue
to do our best to provide medicines
doctors whatever is
needed to
help
in ameliorating the
plight of the people of
Gaza what I would like to
do at this time is to underline
that if
humanitarianism is the primary concern
for all of us for the International
Community and for the United
Nations the actions that we need to take
besides the supplies that have to
flow the actions we need to take have
already been approved by the United
Nations General
Assembly and what is there for us is to
implement that resolution of the general
assembly adopted with 121
votes this is the obligation of the
Secretary General this is the obligation
of all elements of the United Nations to
seek an immediate
ceasefire to seek a continuation of
sustained
supplies for the besieged
gazans and to prevent a further
displacement of the people of
Gaza everything else is special
pleading when my friend from Canada I
don't want to pick on Canada again but
I'm
afraid having heard him again this
morning I must say
I am
amazed that a humanitarian Canada can
once again put forward the kind of
arguments he did about the
need
to release the hostages but not the
9,000 Palestinians or 90,000
Palestinians that have been arbitrarily
arrested and kept in Israeli prisons
talk about that
too he talks
about calling for a humanitarian truth
well the general assembly has called for
a humanitarian truth leading to the
cessation of hostilities that is Our
obligation to do
today anyone calling for a humanitarian
pause to allow the Israelis to stop for
five minutes and then bomb them bomb the
Palestinians again I think this is
contrary to International humanitarian
law to the obligations of international
humanitarian law a violation of the
obligations that they have undertaken as
parties to the to all the international
humanitarian conventions a
violation by taking that
position and also by taking the position
that if military targets are placed or
suspected to be somewhere that it is all
right for the Israelis to bomb
them if there was a Target Target in the
AI
Hospital would it be just for the
Israelis to bomb the
hospital where does international law
justify this International humanitarian
law is
categorical you cannot Target civilian
sites and civilian facilities especially
not
hospitals even if there was a t a
military Target that which is not proven
how did the Israelis have the Israelis
ever proved that any of the schools that
they have bombed any of the hospitals
that they have destroyed any of the
refugee camps which they have bombarded
has has Israel proved that there was a
military Target
remotely there they are doing this as
collective punishment this is
unfortunately a people who suffered the
Holocaust A people who who suffered the
genocide committing the modern genocide
and we must call it for what it is let's
not mece our words let us as
International as the International
Community adhere to what the general
assembly has said let us adhere to what
the international humanitarian law says
this is Our obligation we cannot mince
our words we have to tell these Israelis
stop the
genocide this is what we expect from the
Secretary General this is what we expect
from you Martin this is what we expect
from all those who are leading the
United Nations all those who are
speaking for the conscience of the
International Community thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to representative of the
United
States Martin for your leadership and
many thanks to Lynn and Tom for being
with us this morning and for the
critical work that they're doing to the
unra colleagues we join you in mourning
the loss of members of your team we're
moved by the dedication of unra and
other humanitarian staff who even in the
face of their own displacement and
danger continue to serve others there is
simply no replacement for the critical
role of the UN particularly of unra the
United States has been clear that the
lives of all civilians including un
personnel and humanitarian workers must
be protected we've also been clear in
our unequivocal condemnation of the
attacks by Hamas terrorists Hamas has
shown absolutely no respect for human
life Hamas has killed more than 1,400
people in Israel uses Palestinian
civilians as human Shields and continues
to hold
hostages President Biden and Secretary
of State blinkin have underscored
publicly and privately that as Israel
exercises its right to defend itself it
must do so in line with International
humanitarian
law secretary blinkin recently said the
lives of Palestinian civilians must be
protected this means the flow of food
water medicine Fuel and other essential
humanitarian Aid into Gaza must increase
immediately and
significantly it means Palestinian
civilians must be able to stay out of
Harm's Way it means every possible
precaution ction must be taken to
safeguard humanitarian sites and it
means humanitarian pauses must be
considered for these
purposes these words are backed by
actions as we speak secretary blinkin is
again in the region his second trip in 3
weeks he is pursuing these objectives
including humanitarian pauses to allow
Aid to reach Gaza and be distributed and
to allow safe passage for civilians
which will help people access
humanitarian assistance or move to safer
locations he also will focus on concrete
steps to be taken to minimize harm to
men women and children since his
appointment as US Special Envoy for
humanitarian issues Ambassador David
saterfield has also worked to facilitate
the flow of humanitarian Aid as a result
food water and medical supplies begun to
move into Gaza but we know that much
more is urgently needed we are working
with Israel Egypt the UN and others to
expand and sustain these efforts the
United States has committed an
additional $100 million in humanitarian
assistance bringing total Aid to the
Palestinian people to more than1 billion
do in the last two and a half years we
call on others to join us urgently in
meeting the un's appeal thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to the representative of
United
Kingdom thank you sorry excuse me thank
you very much Lisa and of course to you
under Secretary General
uh Martin Griffiths and I want to start
um by expressing our deep appreciation
to you Martin for your tireless efforts
in recent weeks and of course to the
work of the UN and all humanitarian
partners for their life-saving efforts
in such incredibly challenging
circumstances and like others I of
course also want to share the UK's
condolences to the families and friends
of all unal colleagues who have lost
their lives and to all Palestinians and
Israelis who have lost love loved
ones in response to this Ute
humanitarian crisis the UK has
significantly stepped up our
humanitarian efforts our prime minister
foreign secretary and un Minister Lord
ahed have all visited the region over
the last two weeks focused on these
efforts and on three key
priorities first the UK has been clear
that all sides must comply with their
obligations under International
humanitarian law that means that every
possible precaution must be taken to
protect civilians wherever they are it
also means that all hostage es must be
released immediately safely and without
conditions second the UK continues to
call for immediate unimpeded and safe
humanitarian access to Gaza so that
life-saving Aid including water fuel
medicine and food can reach the
civilians who so desperately need it
piped water supplies and allowing fuel
to enter Gaza are essential to allow
hospitals and other critical
infrastructure to operate and we urge
all parties to allow for humanitarian
pauses
which would ensure safe Aid delivery and
critical repairs to key infrastructure
including water and
electricity whilst we welcome of course
the reopening of Rafa Crossing we are
aware that this is not sufficient to
meet the soaring needs and so we urge
the opening of other border crossings
such as Kem Shalom as well as increased
access through existing commercial
commercial routes such as Port Z to
enable more humanitarian Aid to reach
civilians in need and finally we have
increased our funding to the
humanitarian response to support our
partners and the people of Gaza we have
committed a further $37 million Us in
humanitarian assistance since October
the 16th doubling the UK's commitment to
the occupied Palestinian territories
this year thank you very
much thank you very much and before I
give the floor to representative of the
Netherlands I wanted to just let you
know that we'll extend this session to
1110 due to the number of interventions
that we have but I would again remind
you to please keep your interventions to
2 minutes please so we can get through
the pre-registered speakers list so now
I'd like to give the floor to
representative Netherlands and followed
by Iceland Cyprus and Ireland thank
you thank you Lisa and thanks to um um
to the the present to presenters the
briefers for their um um for the
presentations today Martin Lynn and
Thomas and I think once again um we
cannot be but be shocked by by what we
just heard by shocked by the number of
innocent lives lost among them as we've
heard often many children and shocked by
the suffering of many more people and by
the number of of un staff that lost
their lives and we pay tribute to the
brave un staff and other humanitarian
workers that continue to work tirelessly
under extremely difficult circumstances
I'll just make three points in the
interest of time first uh we repeat that
International humanitarian law must be
respected and agree with the Secretary
General that every possible measure must
be taken to protect innocent civilians
to keep un premises safe and to allow un
staff to do their essential life-saving
work safely and
unhindered but and that's my second
point I think the truth is that nobody
here in New York can even begin to
imagine what the situation in Gaza is
we've heard what is needed um you know
secure safe and unhindered humanitarian
action uh ACCESS food water fuel
medicine that needs to be allowed in
immediately and we thank those that are
working to achieve uh that um and as you
said Martin also life sustaining uh
connections must continue to operate
we've heard um the 329 trucks that have
entered so far but we also know that it
Pils in comparison to what is uh needed
and that is an immediate and massive
scale up um of assistance and we need to
do all we can to make that possible
starting with um humanitarian pauses and
corridors as you just said we've also
heard of course that funding is urgently
needed the Netherlands um has already
committed an additional 25 million EUR
for Urgent humanitarian um relief 8
million of which is for unra and comes
on top of our annual contribution of 19
million euros and we um encourage others
to do the same but you know the
essential thing is we must urgently
break the cycle of violence stop the
loss of more lives more suffering and
more Futures shattered I thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to representative
Iceland my appreciation goes to the
briefers and at the outset let me also
commend humanitarian actors for their
Relentless efforts to ease the suffering
of the civilian population in in Gaza we
deeply regret the devastating loss of
all civilian life in the current
conflict and that of stuff my country
deplores the immense suffering inflected
on civilians and underlines that
civilian civilian objects medical
personnel and humanitarian workers and
assets must be protected international
law including International humanitarian
law must be respected at all times we
welcome that humanitarian convoys have
started entering Gaza and thank the un
uh for continued leadership in this
regard we also join the call for
humanitarian Paws and corridors to
facilitate immediate safe and unhindered
humanitarian access and the delivery of
life- saving assistance throughout Gaza
and obviously more Aid is urgently
needed and at scale in particular fuel
water food and medicine now recognizing
the importance of flexible funding in
these trying times Iceland has responded
to the call for Urgent humanitarian
assistance with two additional unmarked
core core contributions to onra which is
our long-standing humanitarian partners
that is a total of $1 million us and
earlier uh this year we renewed our
multier uh agreement with unra for
another 5 years for annual core funding
and we remain predictable donor to Old
salad country based pool Fund in the op
and further uh contributions for
humanitarian assistance are currently
under consideration by my government
thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to the representative
Cyprus
thank you thank you moderator and thank
you under Secretary General for the
briefing and for the exceptional for
your exceptional efforts and work in
dealing with this unfortunate
crisis as a country in the region Cyprus
is fully aware of the scale and
potential repercussions of the
humanitarian crisis in Gaza the need to
urgently address this alarming situation
including by ensuring the continued rabi
and safe and unhindered flow of
humanitarian Aid cannot be emphasized
enough Cyprus is in consultation and
cooperation with all immediate State
quars and other partners in order to
practically
facilitate facilitate the provision of
humanitarian Aid beyond the first
response to address the dire
humanitarian needs in the Gaza strep and
in this context we have proposed the
establishment of a maritime humanitarian
corot from Cyprus which would
effectively contribute to alleviating
the constantly increasing assistance
Necessities taking into account the need
to secure the sustained regulated robust
and high volume flow of humanitarian Aid
Cyprus has geographical proximity to
Gaza as well as existing capabilities
places places Us in an optimal position
to establish a reliable and viable
humanitarian Mari Maritime Corridor both
as a meat and long-term necessity for
the day beyond which would serve to
decompress the Rafa Crossing which with
full consideration of the security
aspect we will be engaging directly with
the UN on the oper
operationalization of this initiative I
thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to representative of
Ireland followed by Australia France and
then
Malaysia thank you moderator and firstly
sincere thanks to AA unra and the deputy
special coordinator for your leadership
for this briefing and for the life
saving work your colleagues are carrying
out in Gaza we wish to thank you for
your sustained commitment during these
most challenging of circumstances as we
witness a humanitarian catastrophe
unfolding before our eyes we are
appalled by the loss of life of men
women and children and the suffering
that we are now seeing in Gaza our
condolences goes to those who have lost
their lives over the last month
including those who died in the
appalling uh Hamas attacks on the 7th of
October and it's really important to
acknowledge that uh but also all those
who have lost their lives in Gaza
including unra and other humanitarian
staff Ireland resolutely supports the
United Nations and the important role
the ascential role that is now playing
in the occupied Palestinian territory
and we call upon Israel to ensure
continued access for all un staff
as you have said the humanitarian
situation in Gaza is now
critical uh we have condemned the
attacks in the 7th of October we also
call for the immediate and unconditional
release of all hostages as Martin has
said we also call on Israel to act in
full compliance with international law
and international humanitarian law these
laws we uh apply in all circumstances
and apply to all states civilians must
be
protected Ireland Echo the UN secretary
General's called for humanitarian
ceasefire to allow essential Aid to
reach those in such desperate need
now there also needs to be an immediate
and significant scaling up of
humanitarian supplies into Gaza as well
as safe and unimpeded access of
humanitarian Personnel to where they are
no most needed both both into and within
within Gaza
itself in response to this humanitarian
catastrophe Ireland recently delivered
additional funding of 13 million euro 10
million for unra and 3 million for AA
and this brings our 2023 support for
Palestine to 29 million euro it is
nowhere near enough we know that and the
really important point is that the aid
gets in and in scale
now the UN General Assembly has given
the agency a mandate we must ensure it
has the resources to fulfill it we urge
other partners to also Step Up including
by ensuring un's core functions are
supported now and into the future we
need to act now and at scale thank you
thank you very much now I'd like to give
the floor to representative of
Australia thank you uh moderator and
under Secretary General and uh I thank
Ocha very much for this briefing for the
for the work that the United Nations is
doing on the ground and of course our
sympathy and condolences for all those
uh who have lost their lives uh
excellencies colleagues the humanitarian
situation in Gaza is dire human
suffering is clearly widespread
Australia reiterates our call for full
compliance with international law
protection of Civilian lives and
humanitarian pauses on hostilities to
allow food water medicine and other
essential assistance to reach people in
desperate need and to enable civilians
to get to safety we thank our
International partners for their
tireless work since the beginning of
this conflict to facilitate the flow of
supplies through the raffer crossing
life-saving Aid must be increased and
sustained and with the Rafa Crossing
there must be uh accessibility for those
who need to depart efforts to meet the
significant humanitarian challenges in
Gaza must continue our government has
announced a total of 25 million
Australian dollars in humanitarian
assistance which is helping to meet the
Urgent needs of affected communities
including women and children delivered
through the United Nations organizations
and the Red Cross and red crant movement
this support includes access to medical
support food and emergency Water
Sanitation hygiene and shelter Services
Australia continues to engage with
counterparts to secure greater
humanitarian access to Gaza and prevent
the conflict from widening Australia
stands ready to provide further support
thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to representative
France thank you thank you very much
Lisa and thank you Martin uh for
organizing this meeting I would like to
thank also our briefers uh Tom linnn on
the ground on the field thank you for
this sobering terrible account of the
situation on the ground and thank you
for the essential absolutely essential
work you are doing on the
field this humanitarian tragedy is a top
priority for France and we are
absolutely alarmed by the scale and the
number of the civilian uh casualties in
Gaza we call for human itarian truth
that could lead to a ceire as the ne
next steps we want to remind that
respect for international humanitarian
law is not an option it's a moral
obligation it's an international
obligation all civilians must be
protected we have condemned in the most
explicit terms the terrorist attacks
from Hamas against Israel on on October
7th and there's absolutely no ambiguity
on that matter we also believe civilians
in in Gaza should not pay for the pr the
crimes of
Hamas we also call for all as hostages
to be released
immediately the humanitarian a has
started slowly to enter to gaza's STP
and we all agree it's not enough and
that the priority remains to allow more
humanitarian Aid into Gaza it cannot
wait any longer humanitary access to the
Gaza Strip must be fully open without
delay I would like to remind that France
has already released 20 million euro of
humanitarian aid for the people of Gaza
since the beginning of this crisis as
well as a humanitarian relief plane and
a hospital ship to support gaza's
medical infrastructure and we like to
announce that we will organize in Paris
on November 9th conference on
humanitarian Aid in Gaza focused on the
Practical modalities of the delivery of
aid but it will also be a pledging
conference thank
you thank you very much now I'd like to
give the floor to representa of Malaysia
thank you moderator and thank you for to
the briefers for the
updates Malaysia acknowledges The
crucial role of OA in the coordination
of critical humanitarian response and
assistance to those in need in the
occupied Palestinian territory we
commend the exceptional courage and
commitment of Frontline humanitarian
workers of the UN their safety and
protection must be guaranteed our
deepest condolences to the family of the
deceased humanitarian workers of anra
mindful of the time limit I would like
to briefly convey uh Four Points first
Malaysia joins others in demanding for
an immediate ceasefire as a crucial
first step to put a stop to further
Bloodshed and destruction as well as to
allow humanitarian work to be carried
out second we call for the establ ment
of humanitarian corridors as well as the
unimpeded and unhindered humanitarian
access to enable Aid and assistance to
reach those in need throughout Gaza
third there must be an immediate stop to
the forc displacement of civilians in
Gaza this is not only morally repugnant
but is a blatant violation of
international humanitarian law Malaysia
calls for the immediate provision of
basic supplies of fuel water medicine
and electricity into Gaza Malaysia would
also like to announce that the
government of Malaysia has decided to
allocate an emergency contribution to
anra in conclusion I wish to reaffirm
Malaysia's State fast commitment towards
just and durable peace in a free and
independent Palestine thank
you thank you very much and now I'd like
to give the floor to uh representative
from Belgium followed by Spain Croatia
and then Luxembourg Belgium FL is
yours
sorry I'll start over Mr under Secretary
General excellencies allow me to thank
you the humanitarian organizations and
especially the brave staff on the ground
for their courage to stay and deliver in
these extreme conditions situation in
Gaza is inhumane more than 9,000 dead
almost half of which children hundreds
missing and over a million people on the
Run fuel water food and Medicine
supplies are dwindling rapidly critical
supplies must arrive now and all
hostages must be released immediately
and unconditionally Humanity must
Prevail access to people in need must be
full safe and unimpeded including in the
north of Gaza more border crossings are
needed and access modalities have to be
also logistically
practicable International humanitarian
law must be respected by all parties at
all times also when acting in
self-defense civilians must be protected
humanitarian and healthcare workers must
be protected we need to come to a
humanitarian ceasefire as called for by
the
SG let us also not lose sight of what is
happening in the West Bank including
East Jerusalem the past weeks have been
the deadliest for Palestinians in area C
and at least 13 communities have been
forcibly displaced Mr under secretary
General current humanitarian Aid is not
sufficient this is why Belgium added 2
million EUR to the OA op cbpf Fund in
addition to our existing Aid to Ocha and
unra Belgium emphasizes the vital role
of unra we request donors to show
flexibility and ask to use all possible
funding mechanisms to support unra in
responding to this humanitarian crisis
and to ensure its stability I thank
you thank you very much now I would like
to give the floor to representative of
Spain wants to express our full support
to the Secretary General and un agencies
especially and Rua and the Red Cross and
red grons and our deepest condolences
for all the the UN personal victims full
support for the respect of international
humanitarian law contined safe and
unhindered humanitarian access
humanitarian poses and corridors Spain
with double its a to Palestine this year
and within the framework of the
presidency of the European Union we have
activated the EU integrated political
crisis respon platform to monitor the
situation in Palestine thank
you thank you very much then I'd like to
give the floor to the representative of
Spain
please oh sorry sorry Croatia excuse me
thank you madam chair um let me start by
acknowledging the exceptional work of
the the humanitarian and medical staff
present on the ground and their
Relentless dedication to provide life-
saving assistance in these extremely
strenuous and dangerous
circumstances we call for ensuring their
safety and protection our deepest
condolences go out to the families and
friends of all those who lost their
lives Croatia is Gravely concerned by
the rapidly deteriorating humanitarian
situation in Gaza we deplore all loss of
civilian life and reiterate the
importance of ensuring the protection of
all civilians at all times in line with
the international humanitarian
law at this time it is of utmost
importance to continue providing urgent
humanitarian Aid to civilians who need
it most we reiterate the importance of
adhering to humanitarian principles we
call for continued Rapid Safe and
unhindered humanitarian access and Aid
to reach those in need through all
necessary measures including cluding
humanitarian corridors and pauses for
for humanitarian
needs and recognizing the urgency and
gravity of the humanitarian situation on
the ground Croatia will be deploying
urgent humanitarian Aid to the
population of the Gaza Strip in the
amount of 250,000 EUR re reiterating our
long-standing commitment to providing
support for the efforts of the
international organizations NGS and
other humanitarian Partners in their
direct humanitarian Aid activities I
thank you thank you very much excuse me
and we have about 15
more channel
one channel
one channel one
Channel
One Channel
One
Channel
One Channel One
channel
one channel
one channel one
Channel
One Channel
One
Channel
One Channel One
channel
one channel
one channel one
Channel
One Channel
One
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
Channel
One
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
Channel
One
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
Channel
One
channel
one channel
one channel one
Channel
One Channel
One